federalist 26 the idea of restraining
the legislative authority in regard to
the common defense considered
for the independent journal hamilton
to the people of the state of new york
it was the thing hardly to be expected
that in a popular revolution the minds
of men should stop at that happy mean
which marks the salutary boundary
between power and privilege
and combines the energy of government
with the security of private rights
a failure in this delicate and important
point is the great source of the
inconveniences we experience
and if we are not cautious to avoid a
repetition of the error in our future
attempts to rectify and ameliorate our
system
we may travel from one chimerical
project to another we may try
change after change but we shall never
be likely to make any material change
for the better
the idea of restraining the legislative
authority and the means of providing for
the national defense
is one of those refinements which owe
their origin to a zeal for liberty more
ardent than
enlightened we have seen however that it
has not had thus far an extensive
prevalency
that even in this country where it made
its first appearance pennsylvania and
north carolina are the only two states
by which it has been in any degree
patronized
and that all the others have refused to
give it the least countenance wisely
judging that confidence must be placed
somewhere that the necessity of doing it
is implied in the very act of delegating
power and that it is better to hazard
the abuse of that confidence than to
embarrass the government and endanger
the public safety by impolitic
restrictions on the legislative
authority
the opponents of the proposed
constitution combat in this respect the
general decision of america
and instead of being taught by
experience the propriety of correcting
any extremes into which we may have
heretofore run
they appear disposed to conduct us into
others still more dangerous and more
extravagant
as if the tone of government had been
found too high or too rigid
the doctrines they teach are calculated
to induce us to depress or to relax it
by expedients which
upon other occasions have been condemned
or foreborn
it may be affirmed without the
amputation of invective that if the
principles they inculcate on various
points
could so far obtain as to become the
popular creed they would utterly unfit
the people of this country for any
species of government whatever
but a danger of this kind is not to be
apprehended the citizens of america have
too much discernment to be argued into
anarchy
and i am much mistaken if experience has
not wrought a deep and solemn conviction
in the public mind
that greater energy of government is
essential to the welfare and prosperity
of the community
it may not be a miss in this place
concisely to remark the origin and
progress of the idea which aims at the
exclusion of military establishments in
time of peace
though in speculative minds it may arise
from a contemplation of the nature and
tendency of such institutions fortified
by the events that have happened in
other ages and countries
yet as a national sentiment it must be
traced to those habits of thinking which
we derive from the nation from whom the
inhabitants of these states have in
general sprung
in england for a long time after the
norman conquest the authority of the
monarch was almost unlimited
inroads were gradually made upon the
prerogative in favor of liberty first by
the barons and afterwards by the people
till the greatest part of its most
formidable pretensions became extinct
but it was not till the revolution of
1688 which elevated the prince of orange
to the throne of great britain that
english liberty was completely
triumphant
as incident to the undefined power of
making war an acknowledged prerogative
of the crown
charles ii had by his own authority kept
in foot in time of peace a body of five
thousand regular troops
and this number james ii increased to
thirty thousand who were paid out of his
civil list
at the revolution to abolish the
exercise of so dangerous and authority
it became an article of the bill of
rights then framed that
the raising or keeping a standing army
within the kingdom in time of peace
unless with the consent of parliament
was against the law
in that kingdom when the pulse of
liberty was at its highest pitch
no security against the danger of
standing armies was thought requisite
beyond a prohibition of their being
raised or kept up by the mere authority
of the executive magistrate
the patriots who affected that memorable
revolution were too temperate too well
informed to think of any restraint on
the legislative discretion
they were aware that a certain number of
troops for guards and garrisons were
indispensable
that no precise bounds could be set to
the national exigencies that a power
equal to every possible contingency must
exist somewhere in the government and
that when they referred the exercise of
that power to the judgment of the
legislature
they had arrived at the ultimate point
of precaution which was reconcilable
with the safety of the community
from the same source the people of
america may be said to have derived an
hereditary impression of danger to
liberty from standing armies in time of
peace
the circumstances of a revolution
quicken the public sensibility on every
point connected with
the security of popular rights and in
some instances raised the warmth of our
zeal beyond the degree which consisted
with the due temperature of the body
politic
the attempts of two of the states to
restrict the authority of the
legislature in the article of military
establishments
are of the number of these instances the
principles which had taught us to be
jealous of the power of an hereditary
monarch were by an injudicious excess
extended to the representatives of the
people in their popular assemblies
even in some of the states where this
era was not adopted we find unnecessary
declarations that standing armies ought
not to be kept up in time of peace
without the consent of the legislature
i call them unnecessary because the
reason which had introduced a similar
provision into the english bill of
rights
is not applicable to any of the state
constitutions
the power of raising armies at all under
these constitutions can by no
construction be deemed to reside
anywhere else than in the legislature
themselves and it was superfluous if not
absurd to declare that a matter
should not be done without the consent
of a body which alone had the power of
doing it
accordingly in some of these
constitutions and among others in that
of this state of new york
which has been justly celebrated both in
europe and america as one of the best of
the forms of government
established in this country there is a
total silence upon the subject
it is remarkable that even in the two
states which seem to have meditated an
interdiction of military establishments
in time of peace the mode of expression
made use of
is rather cautionary than prohibitory it
is not said that standing armies shall
not be kept up
but that they ought not to be kept up in
time of peace
this ambiguity of terms appears to have
been the result of a conflict between
jealousy and conviction
between the desire of excluding such
establishments at all events
and the persuasion that an absolute
exclusion would be unwise and unsafe
can it be doubted that such a provision
whenever the situation of public affairs
was understood to require a departure
from it
would be interpreted by the legislature
into a mere admonition and would be made
to yield to the necessities or supposed
necessities of the state
let the fact already mentioned with
respect pennsylvania decide
what then it may be asked is the use of
such a provision if it ceased to operate
the moment there is an inclination to
disregard it
let us examine whether there be any
comparison in point of efficacy between
the provision alluded to
and that which is contained in the new
constitution for restraining the
appropriations of money for military
purposes to the period of two years
the former by aiming it too much is
calculated to affect nothing
the latter by steering clear of an
imprudent extreme and by being perfectly
compatible with a proper provision for
the exigencies of the nation
will have a salutary and powerful
operation the legislature of the united
states will be obliged by this provision
once at least in every two years to
deliberate upon the propriety of keeping
a military force on foot
to come to a new resolution on the point
and to declare their sense of the matter
by a formal vote in the face of their
constituents
they are not at liberty to vest in the
executive department permanent funds for
the support of an army
if they were even uncautious enough to
be willing to repose in its so
improper confidence as the spirit of
party
in different degrees must be expected to
infect all political bodies there will
be no doubt persons in the national
legislature willing enough to arraign
the measures and criminate the views of
the majority
the provision for the support of a
military force will always be a
favorable topic for declamation
as often as the question comes forward
the public attention will be roused and
attracted to the subject by the party in
opposition
and if the majority should be really
disposed to exceed the proper limits
the community will be warned of the
danger and will have an opportunity of
taking measures to guard against it
independent of parties in the national
legislature itself as often as the
period of discussion arrived
the state legislatures who will always
be not only vigilant but suspicious and
jealous guardians of the rights of the
citizens against encroachments from the
federal government
will constantly have their attention
awake to the conduct of the national
rulers and will be ready enough if
anything improper appears to sound the
alarm to the people
and not only to be the voice but if
necessary the arm of their discontent
schemes to subvert the liberties of a
great community require
time to mature them for execution an
army so large as seriously to menace
those liberties
could only be formed by progressive
augmentations which would suppose not
merely a temporary combination between
the legislative and executive but a
continued conspiracy for a series of
time
is it probable that such a combination
would exist at all
is it probable that it would be
persevered in and transmitted along
through all the successive variations in
a representative body
which biennial elections would naturally
produce in both houses
is it presumable that every man the
instant he took his seat in the national
senate or house of representatives would
commence
a traitor to his constituents and to his
country can it be supposed that there
would not be found one man discerning
enough to detect so atrocious a
conspiracy or bold or honest enough to
apprise his constituents of their danger
if such presumptions can fairly be made
there ought at once to be an
end of all delegated authority the
people should resolve to recall all the
powers they have heretofore parted with
out of their own hands and to divide
themselves into as many states as there
are counties
in order that they may be able to manage
their own concerns in person
if such suppositions could even be
reasonably made
still the concealment of the design for
any duration would be impracticable
it would be announced by the very
circumstance of augmenting the army to
so great an extent in time of profound
peace
what colorable reason could be assigned
in a country so situated for such vast
augmentations of the military force
it is impossible that the people could
be long deceived and the destruction of
the project
and of the projectors would quickly
follow the discovery
it has been said that the provision
which limits the appropriation of money
for the support of an army to the period
of two years would be unavailing because
the executive
when once possessed of a force large
enough to awe the people into submission
would find resources in that very force
sufficient to enable him to dispense
with supplies from the acts of the
legislature
but the question again recurs upon what
pretense could he be put in possession
of a force of that magnitude in time of
peace
if we suppose it to have been created in
consequence of some domestic
insurrection or foreign war
then it becomes a case not within the
principles of the objection
for this is leveled against the power of
keeping up troops in time of peace
few persons will be so visionary as
seriously to contend that military
forces ought not to be raised to quell a
rebellion or resist an invasion
and if the defense of the community
under such circumstances should make it
necessary to have an army so numerous as
to hazard its liberty
this is one of those calamities for
which there is neither preventative
nor cure it cannot be provided against
by any possible form of government
it might even result from a simple
league offensive and defensive
if it should ever be necessary for the
confederates or allies to form an army
for common defense
but it is an evil infinitely less likely
to attend us
in a united than in a disunited state
nay
it may be safely asserted that it is an
evil altogether unlikely to attend us in
the latter situation
it is not easy to conceive a possibility
that dangers so formidable can assail
the whole union as to demand a force
considerable enough to place our
liberties in the least jeopardy
especially if we take into our view the
aid to be derived from the militia
which ought always to be counted upon as
a valuable and powerful auxiliary
but in a state of disunion as has been
fully shown in another place
the contrary of this supposition would
become not only probable but almost
unavoidable
publius